---
hide:
  - toc
---

# History

The asciinema project was started by [Marcin Kulik](https://hachyderm.io/@ku1ik)
in 2011.

While Marcin had been playing with the idea of sharing terminal session
recordings on the web since 2010, the working prototype of what eventually
became asciinema came to life a bit later.

Initially, all components of asciinema - [the recorder](manual/cli/index.md)
(aka CLI), [the player](manual/player/index.md), and [the
server](manual/server/index.md) - were developed as parts of a single [Ruby on
Rails](https://rubyonrails.org/) codebase. The recorder was a simple,
single-file Python program. The player was a single JavaScript file with an
ad-hoc, incomplete parser for ANSI escape sequences, using jQuery to juggle the
lines of a fake terminal view in a web browser. It was rough but worked well
enough to deserve continued development.

The project was initially named "ascii.io". In March 2012, the ascii.io site was
launched, providing free hosting for terminal session recordings made with the
`asciiio` script (triple "i", omg!). The project was renamed to "asciinema" in
September 2013 and published as [asciinema
package](https://pypi.org/project/asciinema/) to [PyPI](https://pypi.org) around
the same time.

In late 2014, the recorder was rewritten in [Go](https://go.dev/), preserving
the functionality of the previous versions while improving in some areas. The
first release of the new codebase was 0.9.9, published in December 2014.

The same year, version 1.0 of the player came out, quickly followed by version
1.0 of the recorder, which was released in March 2015. These releases stabilized
the first version of asciinema's recording file format, [asciicast
v1](manual/asciicast/v1.md).

Version 1.2 of the recorder was the final version implemented in Go. For
[several
reasons](https://blog.asciinema.org/post/and-now-for-something-completely-different/),
it was reverted to the previous Python implementation. The new-old recorder was
released in July 2016 as version 1.3, with all new features backported from the
Go codebase.

The lack of a proper ANSI parser in the early versions of the asciinema player
was an obstacle to timely bug fixes and more comprehensive terminal emulation.
Therefore, in 2015, work started on implementing a new version of the player
with a proper ANSI-compatible terminal parser embedded. The result was asciinema
player 2.0, rewritten from scratch in
[ClojureScript](https://clojurescript.org/), and released in January 2016.

In 2017, the asciinema server was rewritten in
[Elixir](https://elixir-lang.org/) and
[Phoenix](https://www.phoenixframework.org/). Around the same time, it was also
made more self-hosting-friendly, with updated installation docs and a simplified
setup in containerized environments.

February 2018 marked the release of asciinema recorder 2.0, which introduced an
improved recording file format, [asciicast v2](manual/asciicast/v2.md), among
many new features.

Another milestone was achieved in May 2022 with the release of asciinema player
3.0, in which the terminal emulation part was implemented in
[Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) (as the
[avt](https://github.com/asciinema/avt) library) and compiled to
[WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org/), resulting in a [4x smaller, 50x
faster](https://blog.asciinema.org/post/smaller-faster/) player.

Outside of asciinema's core components, a new, ultra-fast asciinema GIF
generator, [agg](manual/agg/index.md), was released in August 2022. The creation
of agg was, to a degree, sparked by [avt](https://github.com/asciinema/avt). In
fact, avt has also been integrated into the asciinema server, where it's used
for thumbnail generation and recording analysis since 2020.

The final version of the asciinema CLI 2.x line, 2.4, was released in October
2023. This was also the last version built with Python.

The upcoming 3.0 version of the CLI has been rewritten in Rust, introducing live
terminal streaming. As of May 2024, the new version is in the release candidate
stage.
